doi 10.3390/cancers13071506 

citation Singh (2021), Cancers (Basel)., 10.3390/cancers13071506 

abstract Compared to many common solid tumors, the main genetic drivers of most 
testicular germ cell tumors (TGCTs) are unknown. Decades of focus on genomic 
alterations in TGCTs including awareness of a near universal increase in copies 
of chromosome 12p have failed to uncover exceptional driver genes, especially in 
genes that can be targeted therapeutically. Thus far, TGCT patients have missed 
out on the benefits of targeted therapies available to treat most other 
malignancies. In the past decade there has been a greater appreciation that 
epigenetics may play an especially prominent role in TGCT etiology, progression, 
and hypersensitivity to conventional chemotherapy. While genetics undoubtedly 
plays a role in TGCT biology, this mini-review will focus on the epigenetic 
"states" or features of testicular cancer, with an emphasis on DNA methylation, 
histone modifications, and miRNAs associated with TGCT susceptibility, 
initiation, progression, and response to chemotherapy. In addition, we comment 
on the current status of epigenetic-based therapy and epigenetic biomarker 
development for TGCTs. Finally, we suggest a unifying "rock and a hard place" or 
"differentiate or die" model where the tumorigenicity and curability of TGCTs 
are both dependent on common but still ill-defined epigenetic states. 

PMID 33805941 


doi 10.3390/cancers13040787 

citation Caggiano (2021), Cancers (Basel)., 10.3390/cancers13040787 

abstract (2)Developmental Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY 10065, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10065, USA.

Despite germ cell tumors (GCTs) responding to cisplatin-based chemotherapy at a 
high rate, a subset of patients does not respond to treatment and have 
significantly worse prognosis. The biological mechanisms underlying the 
resistance remain unknown. In this study, by using two TGCT cell lines that have 
acquired cisplatin resistance after chronic exposure to the drug, we identified 
some key proteins and mechanisms of acquired resistance. We show that 
cisplatin-resistant cell lines had a non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ)-less 
phenotype. This correlated with a reduced basal expression of TP53-binding 
protein 1 (53BP1) and DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PKcs) proteins and 
reduced formation of 53BP1 foci after cisplatin treatment. Consistent with these 
observations, modulation of 53BP1 protein expression altered the cell line's 
resistance to cisplatin, and inhibition of DNA-PKcs activity antagonized 
cisplatin cytotoxicity. Dampening of NHEJ was accompanied by a functional 
increase in the repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) by the homologous 
recombination repair pathway. As a result, cisplatin-resistant cells were more 
resistant to PARP inhibitor (PARPi) monotherapy. Moreover, when PARPi was given 
in combination with cisplatin, it exerted an additive/synergistic effect, and 
reduced the cisplatin dose for cytotoxicity. These results suggest that 
treatment of cisplatin-refractory patients may benefit from low-dose cisplatin 
therapy combined with PARPi. 

PMID 33668653 


doi 10.1155/2018/8671832 

citation Fung (2018), Adv Urol., 10.1155/2018/8671832 

abstract Wilmot Cancer Institute, University of Rochester Medical Center, 
Rochester, NY, USA.
(2)Melvin and Bren Simon Cancer Center, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN, 
USA.
(3)Department of Oncology, Oslo University Hospital, Radium Hospital, Oslo, 
Norway.

Testicular cancer has become the paradigm of adult-onset cancer survivorship, 
due to the young age at diagnosis and 10-year relative survival of 95%. This 
clinical review presents the current status of various treatment-related 
complications experienced by long-term testicular cancer survivors (TCS) free of 
disease for 5 or more years after primary treatment. Cardiovascular disease and 
second malignant neoplasms represent the most common potentially 
life-threatening late effects. Other long-term adverse outcomes include neuro- 
and ototoxicity, pulmonary complications, nephrotoxicity, hypogonadism, 
infertility, and avascular necrosis. Future research efforts should focus on 
delineation of the genetic underpinning of these long-term toxicities to 
understand their biologic basis and etiopathogenetic pathways, with the goal of 
developing targeted prevention and intervention strategies to optimize 
risk-based care and minimize chronic morbidities. In the interim, health care 
providers should advise TCS to adhere to national guidelines for the management 
of cardiovascular disease risk factors, as well as to adopt behaviors consistent 
with a healthy lifestyle, including smoking cessation, a balanced diet, and a 
moderate to vigorous intensity exercise program. TCS should also follow national 
guidelines for cancer screening as currently applied to the general population. 

PMID 29670654 


doi 10.1038/s41598-018-20846-8 

citation Das (2018), Sci Rep., 10.1038/s41598-018-20846-8 

abstract mrinal-kumar.das@hioa.no.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, 
Norway.
(3)Cancer Registry, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Faculty of Dentistry, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

Testicular germ cell tumour (TGCT) is the most common cancer in young men in 
large parts of the world, but the aetiology is mainly unknown. Genome-wide 
association studies have so far identified about 50 susceptibility loci 
associated with TGCT, including SPRY4. SPRY4 has shown tumour suppressor 
activity in several cancer cells, such as lung and prostate, while it was found 
to act as an oncogene in ovarian cancer. An intronic region within the SPRY4 
gene produces a long non-coding RNA, SPRY4-IT1, which has been reported to act 
as an oncogene in melanoma, breast cancer, and colorectal cancer, and as a 
tumour suppressor in lung cancer. The roles of SPRY4 and SPRY4-IT1 in TGCT 
development are yet unknown. We found higher expression levels of SPRY4, both 
mRNA and protein, and of SPRY4-IT1 in human TGCT than in normal adult testis. 
Small-interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated transient knockdown of SPRY4 and 
SPRY4-IT1 in two TGCT cell lines 833 K and NT2-D1 resulted in decreased cell 
growth, migration, and invasion. Knockdown of SPRY4 and SPRY4-IT1 also led to a 
significant reduction in the phosphorylation of Akt. Our findings indicate that 
SPRY4 and SPRY4-IT1 may act as oncogenes in TGCTs via activation of the PI3K / 
Akt signalling pathway. 

PMID 29410498 


doi 10.3389/fcell.2021.649755 

citation Xu (2021), Front Cell Dev Biol., 10.3389/fcell.2021.649755 

abstract (2)College of Bioinformatics Science and Technology, Harbin Medical University, 
Harbin, China.
(3)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Harbin Medical University Cancer Hospital, 
Harbin, China.

Numerous studies have demonstrated that lncRNAs could compete with other RNAs to 
bind miRNAs, as competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs), to regulate each other. On 
the other hand, ceRNAs were found to be recurrently dysregulated in cancer 
status. However, limited studies considered the upstream epigenetic regulatory 
factors that disrupted the normal competing mechanism. In the present study, we 
constructed the lncRNA-associated dysregulated ceRNA networks across eight 
cancer types. lncRNAs in the individual dysregulated network and pan-cancer core 
dysregulated ceRNA subnetwork were found to play more important roles than 
mRNAs. Integrating lncRNA methylation profiles, we identified 49 epigenetically 
related (ER) lncRNAs involved in the dysregulated ceRNA networks, including 18 
epigenetically activated (EA) lncRNAs, 18 epigenetically silenced (ES) lncRNAs, 
and 13 rewired ER lncRNAs across eight cancer types. Furthermore, we evaluated 
the epigenetic regulating patterns of these lncRNAs and screened nine pan-cancer 
ER lncRNAs (six EA and three ES lncRNAs). The nine lncRNAs were found to 
regulate the cancer hallmarks by competing with mRNAs. Moreover, we found that 
integrating the expression and methylation profiles of the nine lncRNAs could 
predict cancer incidence in eight cancer types robustly and the cancer outcome 
of several cancer types. These results provide an improved understanding of 
methylation regulation to ceRNA and offer novel potential molecular therapeutic 
targets for the diagnosis and prognosis across different cancer types.

Copyright © 2021 Xu, Wang, Pang, Cao, Wang, Yu, Xu, Xu, Wang, Lu and Li. 

PMID 34222227 


doi 10.1038/s41467-019-09234-6 

citation Zhou (2019), Nat Commun., 10.1038/s41467-019-09234-6 

abstract yzhou@gnf.org.
(2)Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation, 10675 John Jay 
Hopkins Drive, San Diego, CA, 92121, USA.
(3)Immunity and Pathogenesis Program, Infectious and Inflammatory Disease 
Center, Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, 10901 North Torrey 
Pines Road, La Jolla, CA, 92037, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman 
Drive, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA.
(5)Immunity and Pathogenesis Program, Infectious and Inflammatory Disease 
Center, Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, 10901 North Torrey 
Pines Road, La Jolla, CA, 92037, USA. schanda@sbpdiscovery.org.

A critical component in the interpretation of systems-level studies is the 
inference of enriched biological pathways and protein complexes contained within 
OMICs datasets. Successful analysis requires the integration of a broad set of 
current biological databases and the application of a robust analytical pipeline 
to produce readily interpretable results. Metascape is a web-based portal 
designed to provide a comprehensive gene list annotation and analysis resource 
for experimental biologists. In terms of design features, Metascape combines 
functional enrichment, interactome analysis, gene annotation, and membership 
search to leverage over 40 independent knowledgebases within one integrated 
portal. Additionally, it facilitates comparative analyses of datasets across 
multiple independent and orthogonal experiments. Metascape provides a 
significantly simplified user experience through a one-click Express Analysis 
interface to generate interpretable outputs. Taken together, Metascape is an 
effective and efficient tool for experimental biologists to comprehensively 
analyze and interpret OMICs-based studies in the big data era. 

PMID 30944313 


doi 10.1038/s41598-021-84787-5 

citation Nagy (2021), Sci Rep., 10.1038/s41598-021-84787-5 

abstract 7-9, 1094, 
Budapest, Hungary.
(2)TTK Momentum Cancer Biomarker Research Group, Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Department of Bioinformatics, Semmelweis University, Tüzoltó u. 7-9, 1094, 
Budapest, Hungary. gyorffy.balazs@med.semmelweis-univ.hu.
(4)TTK Momentum Cancer Biomarker Research Group, Budapest, Hungary. 
gyorffy.balazs@med.semmelweis-univ.hu.

Cancer hallmark genes are responsible for the most essential phenotypic 
characteristics of malignant transformation and progression. In this study, our 
aim was to estimate the prognostic effect of the established cancer hallmark 
genes in multiple distinct cancer types. RNA-seq HTSeq counts and survival data 
from 26 different tumor types were acquired from the TCGA repository. DESeq was 
used for normalization. Correlations between gene expression and survival were 
computed using the Cox proportional hazards regression and by plotting 
Kaplan-Meier survival plots. The false discovery rate was calculated to correct 
for multiple hypothesis testing. Signatures based on genes involved in genome 
instability and invasion reached significance in most individual cancer types. 
Thyroid and glioblastoma were independent of hallmark genes (61 and 54 genes 
significant, respectively), while renal clear cell cancer and low grade gliomas 
harbored the most prognostic changes (403 and 419 genes significant, 
respectively). The eight genes with the highest significance included BRCA1 
(genome instability, HR 4.26, p < 1E-16), RUNX1 (sustaining proliferative 
signaling, HR 2.96, p = 3.1E-10) and SERPINE1 (inducing angiogenesis, HR 3.36, 
p = 1.5E-12) in low grade glioma, CDK1 (cell death resistance, HR = 5.67, 
p = 2.1E-10) in kidney papillary carcinoma, E2F1 (tumor suppressor, HR 0.38, 
p = 2.4E-05) and EREG (enabling replicative immortality, HR 3.23, p = 2.1E-07) 
in cervical cancer, FBP1 (deregulation of cellular energetics, HR 0.45, 
p = 2.8E-07) in kidney renal clear cell carcinoma and MYC (invasion and 
metastasis, HR 1.81, p = 5.8E-05) in bladder cancer. We observed unexpected 
heterogeneity and tissue specificity when correlating cancer hallmark genes and 
survival. These results will help to prioritize future targeted therapy 
development in different types of solid tumors. 

PMID 33723286 


doi 10.1038/srep13889 

citation Litchfield (2015), Sci Rep., 10.1038/srep13889 

abstract (2)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Division of Molecular Genetic 
Epidemiology, Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)Center for Primary Health Care Research, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.
(4)Stanford Prevention Research Center, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA, USA.
(5)William Harvey research Centre, Queen Mary University London, London.

A sizable fraction of testicular germ cell tumour (TGCT) risk is expected to be 
explained by heritable factors. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) 
have successfully identified a number of common SNPs associated with TGCT. It is 
however, unclear how much common variation there is left to be accounted for by 
other, yet to be identified, common SNPs and what contribution common genetic 
variation makes to the heritable risk of TGCT. We approached this question using 
two complimentary analytical techniques. We undertook a population-based 
analysis of the Swedish family-cancer database, through which we estimated that 
the heritability of TGCT at 48.9% (CI:47.2%-52.3%). We also applied Genome-Wide 
Complex Trait Analysis to 922 cases and 4,842 controls to estimate the 
heritability of TGCT. The heritability explained by known common risk SNPs 
identified by GWAS was 9.1%, whereas the heritability explained by all common 
SNPs was 37.4% (CI:27.6%-47.2%). These complementary findings indicate that the 
known TGCT SNPs only explain a small proportion of the heritability and many 
additional common SNPs remain to be identified. The data also suggests that a 
fraction of the heritability of TGCT is likely to be explained by other classes 
of genetic variation, such as rare disease-causing alleles. 

PMID 26349679 


doi 10.1016/j.cell.2021.03.050 

citation Collaborators: (2021), Cell., 10.1016/j.cell.2021.03.050 

abstract Electronic address: odegoede@stanford.edu.
(2)Department of Pathology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(3)Biomedical Informatics Training Program, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.
(4)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(5)Biomedical Informatics Training Program, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA; Genomic Medicine Center, Children's Mercy Research Institute, Kansas 
City, MO 64108, USA.
(6)The Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.
(7)Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 
1Z4, Canada; Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics, Vancouver, BC V5Z 
4H4, Canada.
(8)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University, Chicago, Illinois 60612, 
USA.
(9)Section of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, The University of 
Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA.
(10)New York Genome Center, New York, NY 10013, USA; Department of Systems 
Biology, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(11)New York Genome Center, New York, NY 10013, USA; Department of Systems 
Biology, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA; Department of Pediatrics, 
Dr. von Hauner Children's Hospital, University Hospital LMU Munich, Munich 
80337, Germany.
(12)Department of Systems Pharmacology and Translational Therapeutics, 
University of Pennsylvania, Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, 
USA.
(13)McDonnell Genome Institute, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO 63108, USA.
(14)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
MD 21218, USA.
(15)Department of Genetics, University of Pennsylvania, Perelman School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(16)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, 
USA.
(17)Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06510, USA.
(18)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
MD 21218, USA; Department of Computer Science, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD 21218, USA.
(19)Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science and Engineering, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
(20)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine and Cardiovascular Institute, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(21)Department of Genetics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA; 
Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.
(22)Department of Genetics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA; 
Department of Pathology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. 
Electronic address: smontgom@stanford.edu.

Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) genes have well-established and important impacts 
on molecular and cellular functions. However, among the thousands of lncRNA 
genes, it is still a major challenge to identify the subset with disease or 
trait relevance. To systematically characterize these lncRNA genes, we used 
Genotype Tissue Expression (GTEx) project v8 genetic and multi-tissue 
transcriptomic data to profile the expression, genetic regulation, cellular 
contexts, and trait associations of 14,100 lncRNA genes across 49 tissues for 
101 distinct complex genetic traits. Using these approaches, we identified 1,432 
lncRNA gene-trait associations, 800 of which were not explained by stronger 
effects of neighboring protein-coding genes. This included associations between 
lncRNA quantitative trait loci and inflammatory bowel disease, type 1 and type 2 
diabetes, and coronary artery disease, as well as rare variant associations to 
body mass index.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. 

PMID 33864768 


doi 10.1016/j.intimp.2021.107940 

citation Luo (2021), Int Immunopharmacol., 10.1016/j.intimp.2021.107940 

abstract (2)Guangzhou Digestive Disease Center, School of Medicine, South China 
University of Technology, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China; Guangzhou First 
People's Hospital, the Second Affiliated Hospital of South China University of 
Technology, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China. Electronic address: 
eyhefeng@scut.edu.cn.
(3)Guangzhou Digestive Disease Center, School of Medicine, South China 
University of Technology, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China; Guangzhou First 
People's Hospital, the Second Affiliated Hospital of South China University of 
Technology, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China. Electronic address: 
eycaojie@scut.edu.cn.

The stromal and immune cells crosstalk with cancer cells in tumor 
microenvironment, but few studies have fully considered the overall landscape of 
the infiltrating stromal and immune cells in colorectal cancer. We enrolled 1836 
colorectal cancer patients and divided them into the training, validation and 
test cohorts. 64 stromal and immune cells were quantified in each primary 
colorectal cancer tissue by estimating gene expression data using xCell 
algorithm. Univariate, LASSO and multivariate Cox regression analyses were 
subsequently employed to establish a stromal and immune score prognostic model 
based on 13 potential cell biomarkers. Patients of the three cohorts were 
divided into the high- and low-risk groups according to the cutoff value. 
Compared with the low-risk group, high-risk group showed significant shorter 
survival, worse clinicopathologic outcomings, higher cancer-related expressions 
and more active epithelial-mesenchymal transformation. 5-Fu and FUFOL 
chemotherapy regimens made the low-risk patients gain significant survival 
advantage, while none chemotherapy regimens benefited the high-risk group, which 
may benefit from immune checkpoint inhibitors. The nomogram combining the 
stromal and immune score with standard TNM staging system showed better 
predictive accuracy than TNM stage alone. The stromal and immune cell 
infiltration-based score model can effectively and efficiently predict the 
prognosis and chemotherapy effect in colorectal cancer.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 

PMID 34242996 


doi 10.1155/2016/4273943 

citation Pandya (NA), J Immunol Res., 10.1155/2016/4273943 

abstract (2)Indiana University School of Medicine, Riley CCRC 2623, 705 Riley Hospital 
Drive, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(3)Indiana University School of Medicine, Research Building R4, 302D1044 West 
Walnut St., Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(4)Indiana University School of Medicine, Riley CCRC 2616, 705 Riley Hospital 
Drive, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.

Interplay among immune activation and cancer pathogenesis provides the framework 
for a novel subspecialty known as immunooncology. In the rapidly evolving field 
of immunooncology, understanding the tumor-specific immune response enhances 
understanding of cancer resistance. This review highlights the fundamentals of 
incorporating precision medicine to discover new immune biomarkers and 
predictive signatures. Using a personalized approach may have a significant, 
positive impact on the use of oncolytics to better guide safer and more 
effective therapies. 

PMID 28116316 


doi 10.1186/1746-6148-6-15 

citation Klopfleisch (2010), BMC Vet Res., 10.1186/1746-6148-6-15 

abstract klopfleisch.robert@vetmed.fu-berlin.de

BACKGROUND: Cell adhesion is an important regulator of cell growth and motility. 
Recently the hepatocyte cell adhesion molecules 1 and 2 (HEPACAM1 and 2), 
members of the immunoglobulin family of adhesion genes, have been identified. 
HEPACAM1 is involved in negative cell cycle regulation via p53, p21 and p27 
signalling but also mediates increased human breast cancer cell spread. The role 
and expression pattern of HEPACAM2 has not been analyzed so far. In the present 
study we quantified gene expression levels of HEPACAM1 and 2 to evaluate their 
possible role during the carcinogenesis of canine mammary tumours.
RESULTS: Adenomas displayed increased HEPACAM1 and 2 mRNA expression levels and 
decreased HEPACAM1 protein expression levels when compared to normal gland, 
carcinomas and lymph node metastases. In contrast, metastatic carcinomas, 
intravascular tumour cells and lymph node metastases had HEPACAM 1 protein and 
mRNA expression levels similar to normal gland but decreased HEPACAM2 mRNA 
expression when compared to normal gland of the same dog.
CONCLUSIONS: HEPACAM1 and 2 seem to be important for cell-cell adhesion of 
normal and neoplastic canine mammary cells. The loss of HEPACAM1 protein 
expression in adenomas but not in carcinomas questions its role as a tumour 
suppressor at late stages of malignant transformation and indicates that it 
might rather be involved in physiologic mammary cell adhesion and canine mammary 
tumour metastasis. Furthermore, it can be speculated, whether HEPACAM2 plays a 
different role in malignancy and metastasis of canine mammary tumours since its 
transcriptional levels are different in carcinomas and their lymph node 
metastases when compared to HEPACAM1. 

PMID 20226097 


doi 10.1038/ncomms3834 

citation Byles (NA), Nat Commun., 10.1038/ncomms3834 

abstract Macrophages are able to polarize to proinflammatory M1 or alternative M2 states 
with distinct phenotypes and physiological functions. How metabolic status 
regulates macrophage polarization remains not well understood, and here we 
examine the role of mTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin), a central metabolic 
pathway that couples nutrient sensing to regulation of metabolic processes. 
Using a mouse model in which myeloid lineage-specific deletion of Tsc1 
(Tsc1(Δ/Δ)) leads to constitutive mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) activation, we find 
that Tsc1(Δ/Δ) macrophages are refractory to IL-4-induced M2 polarization, but 
produce increased inflammatory responses to proinflammatory stimuli. Moreover, 
mTORC1-mediated downregulation of Akt signalling critically contributes to 
defective polarization. These findings highlight a key role for the mTOR pathway 
in regulating macrophage polarization, and suggest how nutrient sensing and 
metabolic status could be 'hard-wired' to control of macrophage function, with 
broad implications for regulation of type 2 immunity, inflammation and allergy. 

PMID 24280772 


